---
permalink: /
title: "Priya Raman"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I have a Ph.D. in Performance Studies, with a specialization in Indian dance from the Department of Theatre and Dance, University of Texas, Austin (UT). My research explores the role of print media, specifically dance criticism, of the mid-twentieth century to construct transnational public discourse on Indian dance. In the archival project, I analyze print media previews, reviews, and feature articles published in dance magazines and newspapers in India, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, and other European countries. I focus on the crucial decades of the 1930s–50s, when the dance revival unfolded in India, to ask: what role did critics play in choreographing the revival movement? How did critiques capture historical meanings from embodied performance and shape our understanding of national and transnational stagings of Indian dance?  

I align a performative capacity to dance criticism through what I theorize as the post-performance performative. I argue that dance criticism constitutes residual performances— dance critiques are both residues of past performances as well as performance texts in their own right. My analysis teases out how critics can serve as embodied archives of the dancers’ bodily repertoire-archives. Critics held residues of the performance in their bodies and transmitted those residues to artists and readers through their writing. Critiques, then, served as archives both of the dance and the critic’s embodied memory of the dancing body. In this configuration, both the artist and the critic exercised agency in the representation and reproduction of content. Thus, making sense of these texts as residual performances, is crucial to our understanding of mid-twentieth-century transnational Indian dance history, particularly since both the critics and the dancers are deceased and there are no extant records of dances of this era on film. In this post-performance performative, I contend the primacy and power of Western and Indian critical enterprises to  construct and sustain cross-cultural and disparate paradigms to authenticate and evaluate Indian dance in ways that both exceeded the capacity of the dance and selectively reconstituted certain elements of the performance. 