---
layout: archive
title: "Artistic Practice"
permalink: /artistic-practice/
author_profile: true
---
I am trained in the South Indian classical dance style of Bharatanatyam and have been a performer, educator, and writer for two decades. I debuted as a performer in 1997, in my hometown, Bangalore. My dancing years as a teenager were fostered by the 1990s competition culture, which was nothing like the toxic millennial competition dance that developed through popular television formats. Dance competitions of my time, hosted by modest city-based private cultural units were productive sites that promoted and motivated dancers through exposure to public performance. These competitions helped attune me to the evolving dance aesthetic, facilitated dance socialization, and helped frame collective identities with my contemporaries, a camaraderie I continue to share. I cherish winning at the regional and national youth festivals and feats such as these paved way for performances at Government and private art and cultural festivals. In my performing career that followed, I conceived innovative productions that combined the Indian classical dance vocabulary with poetry, literature, myth, and cultural aesthetics. I was selected by Rotary International as a cultural ambassador to tour Illinois and present illustrated lectures on Indian dance.

In my school of Bharatanatyam, I taught students in the traditional guru-sishya parampara training system and presented them in public performances. I collaborated with India’s leading media publication, The Times of India in their educational program called Newspaper in Education (NIE), and as a dance consultant, designed and conducted interactive dance workshops in primary and secondary schools in several Indian cities. I instigated appreciation in students for the narrative format of Indian dance, which was quite popular measured by the repeat engagements that school authorities requested with the NIE personnel.

As a freelance dance writer, I volunteered with print publications and online portals contributing columns and commentaries on Indian dance that documented in informal ways both my experience of performance and current trends in Indian dance. Between 2011-2016 I ran my eZine – The Kalaparva which carried performance previews, reviews, travelogues, feature articles, interviews, and news feed on Indian arts. I developed and managed regular content and handled volunteer contributions.